hostage video BBC does not normally
broadcast hostage video and we're not
going to give the names of the three
individuals who were part of this
message but we have seen and heard and
translated what they had to say so let
us look at some of the details of what
is a distressing uh video to emerge
we're joined by our diplomatic
correspondent Paul Adams Paul what can
you tell us about this video it's really
hard to watch
three women we have confirmed their
identities but we are not as you say
going to name them at the
moment they are sitting in a white tiled
room on chairs dressed rather as the
hostages were the other day in what
appeared to be Palestinian
costumes and one of them speaks and she
speaks with real
Fury and she addresses her remarks to
Benjamin Netanyahu who Israel's prime
minister she says that they have been in
captivity for 23 days that suggests to
me that maybe this video was recorded
yesterday she also refers to a press
conference that the families of the
hostages had given the previous day that
we think was two days ago in which she
says we know there was supposed to be a
ceasefire you were supposed to let us
all go now yes there was a press
conference and yes clearly there's a lot
of talk about ceasefires but nothing
from the Israeli side nothing from prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu to suggest
that such a deal had actually been
struck so that to my way of thinking
suggests that that's what they've been
told happened they probably don't have
any access independent access to
information they are entirely dependent
on what their Hamas captors are telling
them they appear to be healthy they do
not appear to have been abused or
injured but the the woman who speaks is
extremely
emotional and she becomes almost
uncontrollably emotional at the end she
says that the Army was not there to
protect them on the 7th of October no
one arrived no one guarded us and we are
innocent
civilians she also says addressing her
remarks to Benjamin Netanyahu isn't in
isn't it enough to slaughter everyone
not enough Israeli civilians killed and
she just ends her remarks by saying let
us go back to our families now now now
it's really hard to watch it's very
distressing first of all for the
families uh when we're hoping they have
been told about this in as careful a way
as possible it would at least give them
a sign that their loved ones are alive
um and as you say that they look healthy
but it's also deeply deeply distressing
and the Israeli view on these videos and
what Hamas is doing with the hostages
prime minister Netanyahu has called it
psychological terrorism using them to
pursue their War
aims yes it's hard to dispute a
characterization like that this is not a
video
recorded you know out of free will this
is a a video recorded by three women who
have been held for 23 days in conditions
that we can only guess at we do have a
little insight courtesy of the other
hostages who were released who said they
were being generally well
treated once they got to the side not on
the way not on the way that Journey from
the places where they were taken to the
places where they were held was clearly
extremely traumatic and everything that
has happened to them for the last 3
weeks has been utterly traumatic so you
have to obviously take that into account
when you read these words these are the
words they may well reflect some of the
trauma and the anger that they
themselves feel feel but maybe they also
reflect some of the things that they
have been asked to say we just don't
know but the impact of this is going to
be huge it is going to add to the
pressure on Mr Netanyahu to do more to
get hostages out it is going to cause
yet another wave of trauma in this
country where wave upon wave of trauma
has already been crashing on on the
population you know this this story has
the has the ability to do do that to us
every few days and this is just going to
add to that and you know there you have
three three women begging begging their
government to bring them
home yes just deepening the trauma of so
many and it's not just the families and
loved ones with the hostages is there's
so many in this country who themselves
are torn about what has been happening
Benjamin Netanyahu met some of the
families he reassured them reassured the
nation that Israel has two priorities he
said destroying Hamas and bringing the
hostages home and his view was that this
this intensifying war the ground
operations would help he said the only
way to bring the hostages home is not
that ceasefire that the women were no
doubt told to say in that video given as
you say the so little knowledge but by
intensifying the pressure and indeed the
defense minister you have Galant made
exactly the same point that is the way
to force Hamas into some kind of deal it
was interesting when Mr Netanyahu spoke
at that press conference two days ago
and he did he listed those two
priorities and it was in that order
destroying Hamas and bringing the
hostages home clearly his main priority
still as far as we can make out is to
destroy Hamas the you know many many
people in this country are asking how
can you achieve both of those is that
even remotely possible and is it more
likely that the more military pressure
you bring to bear the more you send
troops into those
uh congested areas where the hostages
might be being held the more air strikes
are conducted over Gaza the more likely
it is that actually hostages will come
to harm and indeed another statement
from H Hamas was this morning in
response to the latest signs of the
Israelis moving in on the ground was
precisely that the more you do this the
more you're likely to harm hostages so
this is an awful awful psychological
game which the Caps are playing and they
are hoping still with so many cards in
their hands more than 200 people that
somehow this is going to have an an
impact on the Israeli government so far
we have seen no sign of that is there
something going on behind the scenes
maybe we know that many many actors
including the Gulf State of Qatar are
trying very very hard to orchestrate a
deal in which there could be a release
of hostages maybe in exchange for the
release of Palestinian prisoners held in
Israeli jails but at the moment we have
no sign that any of that is is imminent
this is just going to add to the the
pressure and the Despair and once again
the trauma surrounding all of those
questions yes and that Friday night when
Israel expanded its ground operations it
came suddenly uh a diplomat briefed on
the negotiations through the Gulf State
of katar uh Express regrets saying we
were so close that but said there were
still some issues in dispute and of
course we know those are very big issues
one of them most of all that ceasefire
that the women in the video today talked
about and Paul just before we came on
air there were reports swirling again
that even now even though there had been
a fear that these talks would stop that
there are really crucial discour
discussions going on now as we speak in
Qatar focusing we believe just on the
civilians yes I I think there are
conversations going on everywhere there
was even uh talk of Hamas officials
being in Cairo the Egyptian Capital you
know again part of this complex web of
negotiations and discussions which
continues all the time and me it may
sound almost uh bizarre to to the to the
audience to think that a war could be
raging and conversations could still be
having indirectly between the the Waring
parties about the possible exchange of
prisoners but these things do happen
even in the midst of of wars and so we
couldn't we can't exclude the fact that
something of that kind may still emerge
and it may be that the Hamas people who
are holding those women maybe they
thought that such a thing was imminent
uh you know the truth of these
negotiations is being held by so few
people and it's only when the deal is
done that anyone gets to know I suppose
the one glimmer of hope that the
families can hold on to is the general
view that these hostages and they're
being held by Hamas also Islamic Jihad
and there were reports that they were in
the hands of of gazin who just went and
grabbed people is that they only matter
if they're alive yes they want to keep
them alive they want these bargaining
chips as terrible as it is to say to say
that and Paul you mentioned the details
of it was a a a white tiled room yeah
many eyes will be on these these videos
most of all their families to see for
signs that of distress of the health had
they lost weight how did they look did
they look stressed and the women had
different Expressions without going into
more details but was this in if it was
as widely believed in one of those deep
deep tunnels it was very
well pointed if you can use that word it
it didn't look like cave it wasn't a
cave it didn't look like the kind of
tunnels that we have seen evidence of in
the past it didn't look it didn't look
dank it didn't look Sandy it looked
clean tiled white uh so I'm sure many
many eyes will be pouring over that
trying to see any signs there were there
were no obvious signs really about the
kind of place they were being held gazer
is a is a small place as you know a very
small place but it's also very gested
place and there are many many places
where you could hide civilians and we
don't know you're right we don't know
who is holding who I suspect that by now
Hamas being the major uh group in Gaza
that if anyone if anyone has was
freelancing on this hostage taking
probably the hostages have been gathered
and maybe sort of held centrally but you
know we just don't know um
and could this be the Prelude to to to
any more hostage releases again it's
just impossible to know but it is also
just impossible to ignore so agonizing
so so agonizing one of the many very
tragic human dimensions of this very
very ugly intensifying War Paul Adams I
know you'll get more information for us
on this and all the other developing
stories today thank you very much for
joining us on BBC News and to confirm
again if you've just joined us in the
last hour aasa's military Wing has
released another video a hostage
video on it telegram Channel we are not
broadcasting the video it is not BBC
policy to usually broadcast the video
we're not giving the identities but
we've been discussing what the three
women one of the women who spokes had to
say we'll continue to try to get more
details not just about this video but
the impact on the families on Israelis
and most of all on those intense and
highly sensitive negotiations to bring
the hostages home let's take a look at
other the other top stories this hour
Israel says it has expanded its ground
and air operation